## Do not plagiarise or break copyright law

**Plagiarism**

The course follows the University of Helsinki's study policies [Plagiarism and academic plagiarism](https://guide.student.helsinki.fi/fi/artikkeli/mita-ovat-vilppi-ja-plagiointi), i.e. copying answers from the internet or from a friend and returning them as your own work is forbidden. A proven case of plagiarism will result in the failure of the course and repeated cases of plagiarism may result in the suspension of the right to study.

What does plagiarism mean in the context of the practical work? Direct copying of code is prohibited, with the exception of short snippets of code and code generated by ChatGPT or similar tools (see below). Direct copying of code structure, e.g. by changing the names of variables and functions, also counts as plagiarism. On the other hand, you may use images found on the web if you have the right to do so (see below), but if you do so, you must include a reference to it in the documentation of the work, i.e. mention where the quotation was made.

The same plagiarism rules apply to the documentation of the work and it is particularly forbidden to copy-paste the documentation of a reference project.

**ChatGPT and similar**

Representing code or text generated by ChatGPT and similar AI-based tools (such as Bing Chat, Google Bard or GitHub Copilot) as self-plagiarism is also plagiarism. The use of generated code is allowed in the course, but always "surround" such code with the comments **# AI-generated code begins** and **# AI-generated code ends**. Do this even if you have made minor changes to the generated code (changing the names of variables and functions, etc.).

Remember that the use of ChatGPT and similar tools for generating tests is prohibited in the course.

**Copyright**

Please respect copyright and other intellectual property rights. Remember that you may not use anything found online for your own work. This applies to a wide range of material from software code to images and texts. So always check whether use is permitted under the licence under which the material may have been distributed. Remember that your work is public by default on GitHub. It is your own responsibility not to infringe copyright.
